Welcome to this month’s edition
of JW Broadcasting®!
Here are a few highlights from our program.
Bill lived for music,
but it left him feeling
as if something was missing.
We’ll learn what helped him
to have a truly meaningful life.
Good friends are a blessing,
especially during hard times.
We’ll learn how to build
strong friendships that endure.
And our new song
reminds us of the many reasons
we have to be joyful.
It will make you smile!
This is JW Broadcasting.
No doubt every one of us
at one time or another
has faced a discouraging situation.
Really, no one is immune
from discouragement.
This feeling may last
for a day or two and then subside,
or it might last longer.
What can cause us to be discouraged?
The Watch Tower Publications Index
lists over 20 factors
that can contribute to discouragement.
Some of them are these:
another’s conduct
—what someone did or didn’t do
that disappointed us;
problems in our congregation;
feeling inadequate;
our own personal failures
—what we’ve done or failed to do;
health problems; and loss of privileges.
There are ever so many things
that can cause us to be downhearted.
Even the fact that we are discouraged
can be discouraging.
We feel guilty for being discouraged.
Here’s the good news.
We’re in good company.
Some very prominent
and faithful servants of Jehovah
mentioned in the Bible have been discouraged.
Moses became so discouraged
over the complaints of the Israelites
that he said to God:
“Please kill me right now.”
Rebekah was so distressed
because her son Esau married pagan women
that she told her husband, Isaac:
“I am disgusted with my life.”
Yes, family situations
can cause discouragement.
David was tormented by his sins.
At Psalm 51:3, he wrote:
“I am well-aware of my transgressions,
and my sin is always before me.”
Our mistakes can weigh us down.
Jeremiah felt so discouraged
by the opposition, ridicule,
and apathy he met up with
that he told himself:
“I am not going to make mention of [Jehovah],
and I will speak no more in his name.”
Yes, poor results in the ministry
can discourage us.
The apostle Paul frankly admitted
at Romans 7:24, 25
that he struggled against sinful tendencies.
At times,
he felt miserable over this conflict.
He said: “Miserable man that I am!
Who will rescue me
from the body undergoing this death?”
Faithful men and women
faced discouraging circumstances in the past,
and so do we.
Discouragement is a part of life
in this system.
We should expect it.
Yet, it’s important to consider
how we view discouragement.
Do we view ourselves
as helpless victims of discouragement
and let ourselves sink into a quagmire
of despair and self-pity,
or do we view discouragement
as an enemy
that we must fight against?
We easily recognize that feelings of pride,
selfishness, envy,
and such things are enemies.
We battle against these bad feelings.
We don’t want them to erode our faith
or gain a foothold in our personality.
Yet, sometimes we may yield all too willingly
to discouragement.
Why is this dangerous?
Please read with me Proverbs 24:10:
“If you become discouraged
“in the day of distress,
your strength will be meager.”
Did you note the reason why
we must fight discouragement?
What did Proverbs 24:10
tells us will happen
if we allow a “day of distress”
to discourage us?
We’ll lose our strength.
Yes, discouragement can drain us
of our spiritual, mental, emotional,
and even physical strength.
And what can happen if we lose our strength?
We can lose our enthusiasm for the truth.
We may lose interest in prayer
or in personal study.
We could slack off in attending meetings.
We could develop coldness
toward our brothers.
Our zeal for evangelizing can weaken.
We may even want to give up.
We don’t want any of those things
to happen to us, do we, brothers?
How, then, do we fight
and defeat discouragement?
Discouragement is a feeling, an emotion.
What causes feelings or emotions?
An article entitled “Negative Emotions
—Can You Overcome Them?”
was published
in the October 8, 1992, Awake!
This article didn’t discuss
serious cases of depression
that may have a medical or physical cause,
such as a disease,
a reaction to toxins, medications,
nutritional deficiencies,
allergens, hormonal problems,
or bipolar disorder.
Rather, it discussed how to overcome
moments of discouragement
like the temporary “day of distress”
mentioned at Proverbs 24:10.
Under the subheading
“We Can Control Our Thinking,”
it stated this:
“Many who work in the field of mental health
“maintain that our feelings
are caused by our thoughts.”
It’s been said
that ‘you cannot experience a feeling
without first experiencing a thought.’
So then, feeling discouraged
isn’t always the situation that we face
but the negative thoughts
that we have about the situation.
The first step, then,
in fighting discouragement
is to identify the negative thoughts.
Sometimes we say
that we have a “train of thought.”
It means we have a series of thoughts
that lead to a certain conclusion,
or destination, if you will.
Now, imagine yourself
getting on a literal railroad
or subway train.
Soon you realize
that you’re on the wrong train.
It’s taking you to a place
you do not want to go to.
What do you do?
Do you stay on the train
all the way to the wrong destination?
Of course not.
No, you get off that train
at the very next station.
But what do you do next?
You switch to the right train.
Now, figuratively speaking,
if you realize
that your mind is getting on
a train of negative thoughts
that are leading to discouragement,
can you get off that train?
Certainly.
But you need to switch
to the right train of thought
that will lead you
to a peaceful state of mind.
That’s the key.
We need to replace negative thoughts
with positive, upbuilding,
spiritual thoughts.
Keeping our thinking on the right track
is an ongoing process.
Notice how the apostle Paul put it
in Ephesians 4:23:
“And you should continue to be made new
in your dominant mental attitude.”
Do you see how Paul confirms
that we are in control?
We can change how we think.
And because we’re imperfect,
we have to make these changes continuously.
It’s not a losing battle.
Jehovah has given us powerful weapons
to help us make our minds
move in the right direction
—his powerful Word,
his mighty holy spirit,
the power of prayer,
and healthful spiritual food
from his organization.
Let’s consider some negative thoughts
that may lead to discouragement.
Then, we’ll consider
upbuilding, positive thoughts
that help us fight discouragement.
You had a bad day.
You said or did the wrong thing,
and you regret it.
It’s become a “day of distress.”
The thought enters your mind,
‘I’m worthless.’
That’s the “discouragement train.”
Will you continue to stay
on this train of thought,
taking you to the state of discouragement?
Remember, you have a choice.
You can reject it.
Instead of giving in
to that negative thought,
you could say to yourself:
‘Wait a minute. Stop!
‘That’s not right.
‘Just because I made a mistake
‘does not make me worthless
in Jehovah’s eyes.
‘He’s told us that he knows
that “we are dust”
‘and that he’s merciful.
‘And Jesus said that “not one sparrow
‘that has fallen to the ground
is forgotten by God,”
‘and that “[we] are worth more
than many sparrows.”
‘Yes, Jehovah views me as precious.
‘I’ll pray about this,
‘and I’m sure he’ll help me
not to make that mistake again.
‘Tomorrow will be a better day.
Thank you, Jehovah.’
Let’s take a second example.
A brother has said something
quite unkind to you.
This has become a “day of distress.”
The thought comes to your mind:
‘How can a brother behave like that
‘and still be in good standing?
‘He’s not a good example.
Why don’t the elders do something about it?’
Now, that’s discouragement speaking,
calling for us to “get on board.”
If we stay on that negative train of thought,
we could lose our spiritual strength.
But we still have a choice.
Will we replace those negative thoughts
with positive ones?
We could get our mind on a positive track
by saying to ourselves something like this:
‘Well, that was an unkind thing
for him to say.
‘This is not like him.
‘Maybe my brother just had a bad day.
‘He’s as imperfect as I am.
‘I’ve said unkind things too, at times,
‘and have regretted it.
‘He’s probably feeling the same way.
‘I remember Colossians 3:13 says
‘that we must “continue putting up
with one another
‘“and forgiving one another freely
‘“even if anyone has
a cause for complaint
‘against another.”
‘Well, he has given me a cause for complaint.
‘But it says Jehovah
has “freely [forgiven us].”
‘He has certainly forgiven me
countless times.
‘No, I am not going to allow this
‘to ruin our relationship.
‘How can I help my brother?
‘I’ll pray for him.
‘And I’ll pray for myself
‘that I don’t hold feelings of resentment
in my heart.’
Let’s consider a third example.
After years of hard work
at your place of employment,
your position has been terminated.
You’ve lost your job.
It’s a “day of distress.”
You’re filled
with anxious, negative thoughts:
‘How will I care for my family?
‘What will the future bring?
Why did Jehovah allow this to happen to me?’
Where will this train
of dark, negative thoughts lead you?
Certainly, discouragement will set in,
and you will become
spiritually weak and exhausted.
You still have a choice.
You can replace those negative thoughts
with thoughts such as these:
‘OK, I’ve lost my job.
‘What should I do?
‘Stop serving Jehovah?
‘No!
‘Jesus said that we should not be anxious
over material things
‘because Jehovah will provide
‘if we keep his Kingdom first in our lives.
‘He also said to keep our lives simple.
‘You know what?
‘There are things that we don’t need.
‘So that’s what we’ll do
‘—simplify our life
and do more in Jehovah’s service.
‘Jehovah promises never to abandon us.
‘I’ll throw my burden on him,
and I know he’ll help us
make the right decisions.’
Brothers, we’re living
in the last days of this system of things.
We’ll have our days of distress.
Sometimes these come
because of our own imperfection
or the imperfection of others.
But we also realize
that the Devil wants to discourage us.
Revelation 12:17 tells us
that Satan’s great anger is directed
toward those
“who observe the commandments of God
and have the work
of bearing witness concerning Jesus.”
The Devil will try to take advantage
of situations and problems that we face
to fill us with discouraging thoughts
and drain us of our strength.
Now we stand
at the very threshold of the new world.
Let’s fight discouragement
with all the weapons Jehovah gives us.
Continue to study God’s Word,
making it a part of your daily life.
Pray incessantly to Jehovah
for his powerful spirit.
Keep close to his organization.
God has promised to give us the victory.
Fearlessly, we join in repeating Paul’s words
at Philippians 4:13:
“For all things I have the strength
through the one who gives me power.”
Our first video
is the experience of Aino Ehtmaa.
As we’ll see,
she endured many “days of distress”
for being one of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Notice what she did
to remain faithful and joyful.
When I was young,
my father wrote to me the Bible verse:
“Your word is a lamp to my foot,
and a light for my path.”
And he said: “Keep that always in mind.
Remember God’s Word and live by it.”
I was born in 1929
in the city of Võru, Estonia.
My family was religious,
and my God-fearing parents
lovingly cared for me and provided everything
that a child would need.
When my father learned the truth,
he gave each of us a Bible,
and we began to study it together.
My father was arrested in the summer of 1948.
Estonia was then under the Soviet regime,
but he was still working as a schoolteacher.
The local Department of Education
asked him to come by.
He went dressed in summer clothes
and wearing sandals,
but he never came back.
At midnight, we heard someone
banging at the door.
We opened it, and soldiers came in
and demanded our passports.
We put the passports on the table,
and they just said,
“You are under arrest.”
Pagari Prison in Tallinn
was a place everyone was afraid of,
and I was afraid too.
I remember that I was taken down the steps
to the basement to a long corridor.
There was nothing in the cell
besides a bench.
They slammed the door shut,
and that is when I became a little scared.
But then I prayed to Jehovah to help me,
and a sense of peace came over me.
I laid down on the bench and fell asleep.
I was given a ten-year prison sentence
as an enemy of the State.
A year later, we were transferred
to Russian prison camps.
Spiritual food was hard to get.
It couldn’t be sent by mail.
But the angels somehow still provided for us,
and we always had something.
Even a single verse
or a good thought can help in prison.
In any case, God’s Word
should be in our heart.
We should never forget it,
even if we can only remember one verse.
At one point during my sentence,
I was allowed
to live outside the prison camp.
One Witness family took
me and two other sisters into their home.
Living outside meant that the guard
was not watching us all the time.
We were able to spend time together,
and we could preach a little.
We even went from house to house.
Eventually, I moved to a dormitory
because there was not enough space.
And it also meant that the literature
could be stored at my place,
because if they arrested me,
it wouldn’t be a big deal,
but if the brother was arrested,
it would be much worse.
They raided my place one night.
They put all the literature on the table
and asked me where I got it.
I said, “The angels are bringing it to us
and feeding us all the time.”
So I was sentenced to another two years
for possessing literature.
Then, for the first time,
I heard that Jehovah’s Witnesses
were officially banned.
What a good feeling it was
to be recognized
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses!
That really gave me joy.
I saw Jehovah’s help
in that things were never too hard
for me to bear.
If things were getting too difficult,
something would always change
so that I could cope.
There was always that feeling
that someone was looking after me.
I never felt alone or abandoned.
If only we could be faithful all the time,
then we would also be happy.
But sometimes we fail, and so we lose joy.
Faithfulness gives joy.
In prison, you can stay faithful
if you don’t leave Jehovah
and if you don’t forget to pray
and if you always remember why you are there.
You are there because you are
on Jehovah’s side.
I was not a thief; I was not a killer.
But I was one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and that is worth being in prison for.
If you’re enduring persecution
or any sort of trial,
you’ll want to remember
what helped Sister Ehtmaa.
She kept herself spiritually nourished
even when literature was scarce;
she cherished God’s Word, the Bible;
she fought discouragement
and anxiety with prayer;
and she stayed close to fellow believers
—something we all need to do.
Strengthening relationships
with our brothers and sisters
is especially important
as we move deeper into the last days.
In our next segment from our series
Lessons From The Watchtower,
we’ll learn how to build strong friendships.
Friends give me help
when I need them the most.
They make me laugh; they give me
practical assistance whenever I need them.
They’re just a real source of joy in my life.
When I see my dear friends
going through difficult times
but still serving Jehovah
—that really encourages me with my trials.
Friendship—it just enhances
and enriches a person’s life.
I don’t think that friendship is
something that I find too natural.
I’m shy by nature; I’m hesitant by nature;
I feel inadequate by nature.
In my mind, Baruch was simply
Jeremiah’s secretary.
I had never considered
that after spending so much time together,
it would have allowed them
to draw closer as friends.
When I studied the article
about Jeremiah and Baruch,
it made me reflect
on friendships that I have.
When you work together for Jehovah,
it takes your friendship to another level.
Jehovah’s people will have
a depth and a dimension to their friendships
that will not be shared
by those who are not serving Jehovah.
In the article, I really loved
the point about communication.
Being open with others
allows them to be open with you,
and that just allows
a friendship to flourish.
I can have a very bad view of myself.
I appreciated the reminder
that you will see the bad side of any friend
—that’s just normal.
But good friends
remind you of your good side.
That is like Jehovah talking and reminding me
how much I’m loved by him.
I’d heard that Keith, an older brother,
was returning to Britain
for some medical treatment.
He was much loved—deeply respected.
You try to picture, to imagine
what’s going through his mind
—his fears and anxieties.
I felt very inadequate, but I realized
that it would be the loving
and kind thing to do to speak to him.
So we spent some time together; we talked.
I felt honored just to say a prayer
with someone like that.
I was really touched by Keith’s response.
He clearly and deeply appreciated that,
and I felt thrilled to have done
just a little something
that helped and supported him.
I’ve worked with someone
that I never expected
to become very close to.
Charlotte
—she’s the opposite of me,
but I came to realize quite early on
that she’s an amazing listener.
Charlotte is more than a friend
—she’s now family.
I love my family very, very much.
At the moment, I’m the only one in my family
who is one of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
but I’ve never felt that I was truly alone.
Jehovah has always provided brothers,
sisters, mothers (you know), uncles, aunties.
He’s always given me everyone that I needed.
I feel that I’ve had a lesson
powerfully reinforced
of the blessings of genuine friendship.
When we make an effort
just to give Jehovah a little something,
he can add his blessing.
In my experience, the person you don’t expect
actually turns out to be
a very special friend.
When you work
with different brothers and sisters,
you really appreciate
that they are gifts from Jehovah.
“And he will give all of you into our hand.”
Working hard for Jehovah and being genuine
—that will attract
other brothers and sisters.
We will never forget the friendships
that we make right now.
Jehovah will use those friendships
to help us through the great tribulation.
Those helpful suggestions
appeared in the November 2019 issue
of The Watchtower.
That article emphasized the importance
of forging strong friendships now,
before the end of this system comes.
During the great tribulation,
God’s enemies may try to disrupt our unity.
But we can be confident
that nothing will break our bonds of love.
Our friendships will last
not only through the end of this system
but for all eternity.
For many years, we’ve published
the life stories of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Have you ever wondered:
‘What happened since their stories appeared?
How are they today?’
Well, we’re pleased to introduce
a new series: Where Are They Now?
In our first episode,
we’ll hear from Bill Mullane.
His story appeared
in the Awake!  magazine
some 35 years ago.
At that time, Bill had made a major decision
that would affect the course of his life.
How has it turned out?
Let’s see.
Music expresses things
that you can’t express in any other way.
It is so powerful.
It’s just an amazing gift.
Before I got the truth, I lived for music.
I played hard and heavy rock and roll
in bars and clubs
around the New York City area for many years.
To me, I just found it to be
a very depressing atmosphere.
But then I developed
a love for classical music,
and I would practice six hours a day.
I applied to The Juilliard School
for the performing arts.
I was accepted,
but I did not attend.
Deep inside something was missing.
My life changed drastically
on February 16, 1973,
because that’s
when I learned the truth in a taxicab.
I came to Bethel on February 16, 1979.
When I first came to Bethel,
I had to put music aside for a little bit.
I started working in the pressroom,
and that was
a completely different environment for me.
I also worked with landscaping.
I worked in construction over at Wallkill,
and I also worked
with drafting and engineering.
These were things I was not good at,
but I really felt I learned so much
from doing these things
that it really kind of groomed me.
And I think that when Jehovah looked at me,
he said, ‘Well, we got somebody
we have to work with here.’
Just as you tune your instrument
so it can be played in tune,
Jehovah tunes you.
He teaches us to keep things in their place
and put worship of him first
because that’s where it’s proper.
When Jehovah became number one,
everything else took its place.
Back in 1981, I met my wife
when I was playing music at a wedding.
We fell in love with each other.
As our love for Jehovah
grows through the years,
our love for our mates grows.
Now, I didn’t leave music completely,
because I still had a love for it;
I still practiced as much as I could
within my Bethel schedule
and within my whole theocratic schedule.
I don’t miss it being number one.
I just feel happier now
that it’s in its proper place.
In 1995, when I first came over to Patterson,
I was working with Audio/Video Services.
Since 2016,
I’ve been working with music
—working as a music editor
and as a music composer.
Working with brothers on a piece of music
is a real blessing and a privilege.
Jehovah is letting us take advantage
of a tool that we all like to listen to
but now using it in a way that praises him.
Our whole motive is not to earn money.
Our whole motive in using music
is to glorify our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
And we get music from all different cultures.
It really unites Jehovah’s people.
Music—it has a very special power
in being able to reach the heart.
Now, there are times
when we just sit around
and just jam and play,
and you’re really talking
and communicating with each other.
There’s nothing like it.
I’m happier now
knowing that I’ve lived a clean life.
Do I have any regrets?
I have no regrets.
What I did when I was 22 years old
was the best thing that ever happened to me
because that’s how I came to know Jehovah
and that’s how I was able
to find a balance in my life.
Our happiness doesn’t depend on our job.
Our happiness really depends
upon our spirituality
and our relationship with Jehovah.
That’s what life is all about.
It’s a wonderful life.
Bill has no regrets
about the life he’s chosen to live.
By putting his love for Jehovah
ahead of his love for music,
he gained many spiritual privileges
and a happy, meaningful life.
The apostle Paul wrote
that Jehovah “loves a cheerful giver.”
That was the subject
of a recent morning worship
by Brother Anthony Morris
of the Governing Body.
We’re going to talk about money.
Now, the fact is,
we never beg for money.
But that’s not to say
that we can’t talk about money
in Jehovah’s organization
—the earthly part.
So it’s long standing;
there is a balance here.
Going back to The Watchtower,
a long time ago, it says:
“We have never considered it proper
to solicit money for the Lord’s cause,
“after the common custom
[referring to Christendom]; . . .
“It is our judgment that money raised
by the various begging devices
“in the name of our Lord is offensive,
“unacceptable to him,
“and does not bring his blessing
either upon the givers
or the work accomplished.”
So we do not need to be coerced into giving.
We gladly use our money
to support Kingdom activities.
So that stands to this day.
But we’d never want to come to the conclusion
that we can’t talk about money.
Money has to be discussed
in these last days in this system.
It “meets a response in all things.”
So I thought we’d take some thoughts
from the Kingdom  book:
three reasons why we’re willing
—so willing to give.
Some beautiful thoughts.
Well, the first one is connected
with “doing what is pleasing
in [Jehovah’s] eyes.”
And finding
the Second Corinthians reference here
is so crucial in helping people understand
that we don’t beg for money.
But, nonetheless, we have to talk
about it from time to time.
Here in the ninth chapter,
donations and such were being discussed.
And then this profound, inspired thought,
which is reflecting Jehovah’s thinking,
is in verse 7
—2 Corinthians 9:7:
“Let each one do
just as he is resolved in his heart,
“not grudgingly or under compulsion,
for God loves a cheerful giver.”
So there we have it.
We’re happy to give to Jehovah.
When needs arise,
and the organization
brings it to our attention
—for example, disasters and such
like the report we had at the annual meeting
about the increase in disasters—
millions of dollars of God’s Kingdom money
was used to help our brothers.
But when it comes to giving,
it’s an individual responsibility,
as the verse says,
“resolved in his heart [or her heart],
not grudgingly.”
And the footnote
addresses the word “reluctantly.”
So it’s not like we embarrass people
or beg them, saying:
“Look, you’re well-off.
Why aren’t you giving more?”
Well, that’s not their business;
that’s not our business.
We have to resolve it in our own heart.
So while we discuss money,
we never come across
like we’re putting people
—trying to get them
to even grudgingly give
just so we get the money.
That’s not this organization.
Of course, Christendom,
they are experts at begging for money.
So we love Jehovah.
We want to be
the kind of person that he loves.
And notice that beautiful expression:
“God loves a cheerful giver.”
One translation put it nicely:
“God loves people who love to give.”
And that’s true.
So we want Jehovah to love us.
So this money we might have
—whatever amount, depending
on our own personal circumstances—
we’re happy to give to Kingdom interests.
So that’s the first one:
We make these donations
because of our love for Jehovah.
Now this second one, this is interesting
—a heart-searching principle
found back in the Mosaic Law.
Turn to Deuteronomy chapter 16,
if you would, please.
In Deuteronomy 16,
you’ll see the connection.
While this applied to the Jews at that time,
you’ll see how it applies to us in our day.
We’re going to read verse 16
and then verse 17 of Deuteronomy 16.
“Three times a year,
“all your males should appear
before Jehovah your God
“in the place that he chooses:
“at the Festival of Unleavened Bread,
“the Festival of Weeks,
“and the Festival of Booths,
“[now notice,] and none of them
“should appear
before Jehovah empty-handed.
“The gift that each one brings
should be in proportion
to the blessing
that Jehovah your God has given you.”
So if you let that sink in,
this is what Jehovah wanted to be conveyed
to the Israelites
who would attend these festivals—“none.”
Now, he didn’t say,
‘If you’re well-off,
if you’ve had a great year
(as opposed to some that were poor).’
They still had issues back at that time,
even though it was Jehovah’s nation.
But he said:
‘None should appear empty-handed.’
So that takes in all of us,
whatever our circumstances are,
whether at Bethel or in the field.
Jehovah doesn’t approve
of us coming empty-handed.
What would help us
not to come empty-handed,
in this case,
back in Israel or in our time either?
Notice verse 17,
and this is a lot to think about:
“The gift that each one brings
should be in proportion
to the blessing
that Jehovah your God has given you.”
So there we have it.
You stop and reflect
that they were supposed to do that,
and we can do the same throughout the year.
Reflect on the blessings
that Jehovah God has given us.
You have to take time to do that;
you have to give that consideration.
“The gift that each one brings
should be in proportion to the blessing.”
So adding up these blessings,
then we’re happy to give
out of our material possessions.
So a profound thought there,
and something to reflect on
so that we don’t find ourselves
—when it comes to contributions
on a monthly basis or whatever—
empty-handed, perhaps thinking,
‘Well, I’m doing so much here and there.’
Well, money meets a response in all things,
and you have to take that into account,
even if we’re in the poor range.
Now, the third one
is connected with our love for Jesus.
Let’s turn to John chapter 14,
if you would, please
—John chapter 14.
We give and have voluntary contributions
because we love our Lord Jesus.
And notice what he stated here,
John 14:23:
“In answer Jesus said to him:
“‘If anyone loves me,
he will observe my word,
“‘and my Father will love him,
and we will come to him
and make our dwelling with him.’”
So appreciate how Jesus put it—“if.”
So it’s a responsibility
that falls on us individually.
But if we say we love Jesus
(we’re not like Christendom
with this proclamation
of their love for Jesus,
—they really don’t even know
the real Jesus, frankly,
until they get
an accurate knowledge of the truth),
if we’re in the truth
—dedicated, baptized servants of him—
if we really love him,
we’re going to observe his word.
Now, that means
not just carrying out the Kingdom work,
putting our time and energy into it,
it also means money.
We are willing to donate money
to support the worldwide work.
We’re not ashamed to admit
that it takes money
to have these things operate
—branches, supporting
all of the preaching work,
the Kingdom work,
and all these other initiatives
that we’ve had in recent years.
It takes money.
You can’t go to people
that you buy things from and say,
“Well, look,
this is a non-profit organization,”
trying to shame them, saying,
“Well, can you give it to me?”
No.
They want their money
and to be paid for the various things
that we have to use
to accomplish Jehovah’s work.
So something to keep in mind,
those three things:
Our love for Jehovah
—we want to do what’s pleasing to him.
We count our blessings from Jehovah.
Then, we have our love for Christ Jesus.
And we want to do whatever we can.
So how you do it
with the financial contributions,
that’s a personal decision,
and Jehovah dignifies us with that.
We never want to be shaming somebody
that we think should be doing thus and so.
That’s a personal matter.
But keep in mind, sometimes, if you are poor
—remember the widow.
So she didn’t come there
to the temple empty-handed.
She didn’t have much, but Jehovah loved her.
Jesus loved her for giving what she had.
So even when we’re poor,
we’re expected to give monetarily.
And it’s because we love Jehovah,
we love Jesus,
and we appreciate
all the blessings we receive
during the year and are grateful.
As we’ve discussed,
we fight discouragement
by replacing negative thoughts
with positive thoughts.
Let’s do that right now.
Please enjoy our new music video.
It’s entitled “Always Rejoice.”
Look at the sky; take it in.
Feel the sun on your skin.
So much our God provides—
blessing our lives, helping us grow.
But even more than this, his love is a gift;
we’ll never let go.
Sing to Jehovah with all your heart.
Serve him through all your days—
No greater joy could there be than this,
No matter what we face.
Always rejoice!
Family and brotherhood—
Unity feels so good.
Beautiful gifts from God,
building a bond no one can break.
Freedom may be denied,
but joy deep inside no one can take.
Sing to Jehovah with all your heart.
Serve him through all your days—
No greater joy could there be than this,
No matter what we face.
Always rejoice!
Earth will be a paradise for all eternity.
Jesus’ loving sacrifice truly sets us free.
Sing to Jehovah with all your heart.
Serve him through all your days—
No greater joy could there be than this,
No matter what we face.
Always rejoice!
Now, didn’t that bring a smile to your face?
Our program reminded us
that we can successfully
fight discouragement
and remain joyful.
Despite many hardships,
our Sister Aino
remained faithful and happy
by staying close to fellow believers
and keeping herself spiritually nourished.
We learned how to build strong friendships,
which are a blessing in times of need
and discouragement.
Bill put his love for God
ahead of his love for music
and has enjoyed
a meaningful life serving Jehovah.
And this month’s music video
is a happy song
that we’ll want to sing
again and again.
Now let’s visit our brothers
and sisters in Quebec, Canada.
Quebec is the largest
Canadian province by land area.
This is home
to more than
24,000 brothers and sisters.
The province is known
for its natural beauty:
the St. Lawrence River,
thousands of lakes, waterfalls, ski slopes,
and forests.
Quebec is rich with wildlife:
moose, caribou,
beavers, wolves,
and the Snowy Owl.
Jehovah’s people
began preaching here in the 1920’s.
Government opposition
stirred up by the clergy
began almost immediately.
In 1946,
our brothers held a 16-day campaign
to publicize the State’s disregard
for freedom of worship.
That led to the arrest
of hundreds of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
The first to be tried
were Brother Aimé Boucher
and his two daughters,
one of whom was just 11 years of age.
In 1950,
the Supreme Court
of Canada ruled in their favor,
legally establishing
the right of Jehovah’s Witnesses
to preach in Quebec.
Today, our brothers
are taking full advantage of this freedom.
Montreal is the province’s largest city.
Publishers enjoy public witnessing
in Montreal’s popular
tourist areas, subway system,
and ports,
where workers come from many countries.
They preach to students
attending the city’s eight universities
and many colleges.
In Quebec City, they even preach
in front of the government buildings
where decades ago
laws were written to stop our work.
Brother Boucher was
from the small town of Lac-Etchemin.
There are 71 publishers
in the congregation here.
Their vast territory
includes a lot of farmland,
but their hard work to reach everyone
has produced several Bible studies.
The average midwinter temperature here
is about minus 12 degrees Celsius,
or about 10 degrees Fahrenheit,
and it often gets much colder.
Despite the temperature,
our brothers enjoy warm association.
Quebec produces more than 70 percent
of the world’s maple syrup.
A favorite candy is maple taffy
—made by boiling the sap
from maple trees,
pouring it onto snow,
letting it harden,
and then rolling it onto a stick.
Our brothers and sisters
in the Lac-Etchemin Congregation
send us their love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting!